Mysql example [T2363] (#43)
cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo: README.md

---

# Example 4. Transparent encryption, Zones, Python app, MySQL

> Python client application, client-side encryption with zones support, AcraServer, MySQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python client application, transparent encryption/decryption with zones support, AcraServer, MySQL database.
```

## 1. Installation

### Asymmetric encryption mode

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/master/run.sh | \
    bash -s -- python-mysql
```

> This command downloads a simple Python application that stores the data in a database, Acra Docker containers, PostgreSQL database, sets up the environment, configures python application to encrypt data, and provides a list of links for you to try.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command downloads a simple Python application that stores the data in a database, Acra Docker containers, PostgreSQL database, sets up the environment, configures python application to connect to Acra, and provides a list of links for you to try.
```

## 2. What's inside

<p align="center"><img src="_pics/eng_demo_python-no-ac.png" alt="Protecting simple python application: Acra architecture" width="560"></p>

> **The client application** is a simple [python console application](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/tree/master/examples/python) that works with a database. The application **encrypts** the data in AcraStructs before sending it to a database. The application **reads** the decrypted data through AcraServer (that are transparent for the application).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The client application** is a simple [python console application](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/tree/master/examples/python) that works with a database. The application talks with the database via Acra, Acra **encrypts** the data before sending it to a database, and decrypts the data when the app reads it from the database.
```

2   - DDDDDDDDPfBoWiixeMTUuEOk - April Cassini, Marketing Manager - $168000 - 1235 - 645665 - 078-05-1112 - byt13es2 - april_cassini@cl.com
3   - DDDDDDDDPfBoWiixeMTUuEOk - George Clooney, Famous Actor - $780000 - 1236 - 645667 - 078-05-1117 - byt13es3 - george_clooney@cl.com

```

### 2.6 Read the data directly from the database
To make sure that the data is stored in an encrypted form, read it directly from the database. Use `--port=3306` and --host=`mysql`:

```bash
docker exec -it python-mysql_python_1 \
  python3 extended_example_without_zone.py --host=mysql --port=3306 --print --zone_id=DDDDDDDDPfBoWiixeMTUuEOk

$:
Fetch data by query {}
 SELECT test.id, 'DDDDDDDDYuWpBtCtrjpHyHta' AS anon_1, test.data, test.masking, test.token_i32, test.token_i64, test.token_str, test.token_bytes, test.token_email 
FROM test
3
id  - zone_id - data - masking - token_i32 - token_i64 - token_str - token_bytes - token_email
1   - DDDDDDDDYuWpBtCtrjpHyHta - %%%""""""""UEC2-EzP30dH5aI}1pb@1!gFK '&T@ - -560604022 - -3330418728144437366 - ccxIvgP0iLp - ?a - 98LK9@sigT2.net
```

As expected, `data` and `masking` looks encrypted and `token_*` replaced with random values.

> ### 2.4 Connect to the database from the web

Reviewer: 2.7?

1. Log into web MySQL phpmyadmin interface [http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088).

2. Find the table and the data rows.

<img src="_pics/python_mysql_phpmyadmin.png" width="700">

3. Compare data in result table and source json. All entries except `id` were encrypted or tokenized.

So, the data are protected and it is transparent for the Python application.

> ### 2.5 Encrypt the data without Zones

Reviewer: 2.8?

docker exec -it python-mysql_python_1 \
  python3 extended_example_without_zone.py --host=acra-server --port=9393 --print

$:
Fetch data by query {}
 SELECT test.id, test.data, test.masking, test.token_i32, test.token_i64, test.token_str, test.token_bytes, test.token_email 
FROM test
6
id  - data - masking - token_i32 - token_i64 - token_str - token_bytes - token_email
...
 - yMLDOzoMx@4juJOQbj.de78xxxx - -63551493 - -5945288817374683 - tk59cg2klQ7 - l҄
4   - John Wed, Senior Relationshop Manager - $112000 - 1234 - 645664 - 078-05-1111 - byt13es - john_wed@cl.com
5   - April Cassini, Marketing Manager - $168000 - 1235 - 645665 - 078-05-1112 - byt13es2 - april_cassini@cl.com
6   - George Clooney, Famous Actor - $780000 - 1236 - 645667 - 078-05-1117 - byt13es3 - george_clooney@cl.com
bash-5.1# python3 extended_example_without_zone.py --host=acra-server --port=9393 --print
```

> Note: First 3 entries are encrypted and tokenized from previous example with zones and last 3 are new one encrypted
> in mode without zones.

> ### 2.6 Other available resources

Reviewer: 2.9?

## 3. Show me the code!

Take a look at the complete code of [`extended_example_with_zone.py`](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/python/extended_example_with_zone.py) and [`extended_example_without_zone.py`](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/python/extended_example_without_zone.py).

Let's see how many code lines are necessary to encrypt some data using Acra. We will look at the example with Zones
because it's more complicated and requires additional API call to fetch Zone.

1. The app gets a Zone using [AcraServer API](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-server/#http-api):

```python
def get_zone():
    response = urlopen('{}/getNewZone'.format(ACRA_SERVER_API_ADDRESS))
    json_data = response.read().decode('utf-8')
    zone_data = json.loads(json_data)
    return zone_data['id'], b64decode(zone_data['public_key'])
```

2. The app reads JSON data and writes the data to the database as usual:

```python
def write_data(data, connection):

>    # here we encrypt our data and wrap into AcraStruct

Reviewer: no we don't
